__Title__: Data-Driven Passivity Based Control of Robotic Locomotion and Manipulation

__Abstract__:
The recent boom and success of machine learning methods has encouraged efforts
in synthesizing controllers that contain a neural network somewhere in the
feedback loop of a dynamical system. However, when such controllers are
synthesized it is important to take precautions against their potential
fragitility against disturbances arising from model uncertainty or measurement
noise. In this work we address the automatic robust data-driven controller
synthesis problem for robotic manipulation and locomotion. We demonstrate the
efficacy of our theoretical results in simulation and real-world experiments
on a rimless-wheel and a cart-pole system that contains walls. Our approach
performs repeated interactions with a nominal dynamical model to infer
contact-aware passivity-based controller, whose storage function is given by a
fully-connected neural network. Contacts, impacts and Coulomb friction are
modeled through the linear complementarity problem (LCP), and solved via Lemkeâ€™s
algorithm, which allows us to take pertinent gradients for the data-driven
technique. Additionally, we improve the robustness properties of the controller
under model uncertainties, such as the rimless wheel traversing on uneven
terrain, via Bayesian learning. The controllers are implemented both in
simulation and in real-world experiments with success.

__Bio__:
Aykut Satici holds a BSc and MSc of Mechatronics Engineering from Sabanci
University in Turkey, an MSc of Mathematics, and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering
from the University of Texas at Dallas. He served as a post-doctorate fellow at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Prof Satici is currently an assistant
professor of Mechanical and Biomedical Engineering at Boise State University. He
has actively contributed to the control, estimation, and robotics research
communities for more than 15 years. His research output includes the optimal
design of robotic manipulators, optimal control of uncrewed aerial vehicles,
multi-agent robot control and estimation, differential geometric methods in
nonlinear control, passivity-based control, and control synthesis with machine
learning methods. Pitch Aeronautics has an established relationship and workflow
with Dr Satici's lab. Dr. Satici will lead this research effort full-time as the
PI.
